README.md, before:

opendata
========

Statistics Finland's tools and examples for use with our open data API.

Information about our Open Data API can be found here: http://www.stat.fi/org/lainsaadanto/avoin_data_en.html

statfi_px_api.py
----------------

This script loads the database contents CSV and creates a list of objects containing the CSV information in an easy to use form.

Additionally fetch_px and fetch_px_zipped can be used to download statistical data as PX files from the database.

WARNING: Statfin database contains over 2500 PX files with many gigabytes of data. 

px_reader.py
------------

This is alpha level module, very much a work in progress. However it works with a dozen PC Axis files from Statfin database. I'll test it againts the whole database when I manage to create a script to run this across 2000+ documents therein.

Notable feature is conversion to a [Pandas][pandas] DataFrame using MultiIndex, which is a multidimensional table object. Pandas has an [extensive feature list][pandas features]. Thus you can use PC Axis files for data analysis, visualization and export to other data formats.

Installing scientific Python toolset can be a daunting task. One option is the [Anaconda distribution][anaconda]. Otherwise Pandas installation may be just `pip install pandas` away. This code is unsupported, but please create an issue if you run into problems.

[anaconda]: http://continuum.io/downloads.html
[pandas]: http://pandas.pydata.org/
[pandas features]: http://pandas.pydata.org/#library-highlights

License
-------

All code here is under the BSD license unless otherwise stated. Otherwise Mozilla public license (MPL) is used since it supports both open and proprietary development alike.

Commit message:

Updated README with current status
Also some light textual changes

README.md, after:

# opendata

Statistics Finland's tools and examples for use with our open data API.

Information about our Open Data API can be found here: http://www.stat.fi/org/lainsaadanto/avoin_data_en.html

## statfi_px_api.py

This script loads the database contents CSV given one of the URLs above and creates a list of objects containing the CSV information in an easy to use form.

Use functions fetch_px and fetch_px_zipped to download statistical data files from a database.

WARNING: Statfin database contains over 2500 PX files with many gigabytes of data. 

## px_reader.py

### Status

This module is in beta at the moment. I have run it against 2500+ PX documents inside our Statfin database and encountered only a handful of problems. With few files which contain police domains (http://www.stat.fi/til/pkei/) reader will use all available memory and CPU, so be warned. Additionally files with KEYES data format (which is used with large amounts of zeroes) or files missing heading or row variables are not supported. In all less than 10 files are unreadable.

### Features

Notable feature is conversion to a [Pandas][pandas] DataFrame using MultiIndex, which supports multidimensional table object. Pandas calls this [hierarchical indexing][pandas indexing]. Pandas has an [extensive feature list][pandas features]. Thus you can use PC Axis files for data analysis, visualization and export to other data formats.

Installing scientific Python toolset can be a daunting task. One option is the [Anaconda distribution][anaconda]. Otherwise Pandas installation may work with just `pip install pandas`. This code is unsupported, but please create an issue if you run into problems.

[anaconda]: http://continuum.io/downloads.html
[pandas]: http://pandas.pydata.org/
[pandas features]: http://pandas.pydata.org/#library-highlights
[pandas indexing]: http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/indexing.html#hierarchical-indexing-multiindex

License
-------

All code here is under the BSD license unless otherwise stated. Otherwise Mozilla public license (MPL) is used since it supports both open and proprietary development alike.
